# 🌱 History of TS.js

## [**1.3.1.** A brief history of TensorFlow, Keras, and TensorFlow.js](https://livebook.manning.com/book/deep-learning-with-javascript/chapter-1/137)

---

### [**Figure 1.7** Tensors "flow through a number of layers, a common scenario in TensorFlow](https://livebook.manning.com/book/deep-learning-with-javascript/chapter-1/ch01fig07)

### [**Figure 1.8** The architecture of TensorFlow.js at a glance. Its relationship to TensorFlow and Keras is also shown](https://livebook.manning.com/book/deep-learning-with-javascript/chapter-1/ch01fig08)

## Tools

- [TensorPlayground](https://www.tensorplayground.com/1.0.0/)

---

## **Vocabulary**

- **TensorFlow, Keras** - The LEGO equivalent is the high-level API called Keras.
  - Keras provides a set of the most frequently used types of neural network layers, each with configurable parameters.
- **tensors** - A tensor is a generalization of vectors and matrices to potentially higher dimensions.
  - Internally, TensorFlow represents tensors as n-dimensional arrays of base datatypes.
  - When writing a TensorFlow program, the main object you manipulate and pass around is the tf$Tensor.
- **graph** - Graph Neural Network is a type of Neural Network which directly operates on the Graph structure.
  - A typical application of GNN is node classification.
  - Essentially, every node in the graph is associated with a label, and we want to predict the label of the nodes without ground-truth .
- **sequence tasks** - Neural Networks sequentially build high-level features through their successive layers. We propose here a new neural network model where each layer is associated with a set of candidate mappings.
- **pooling** -
- **possibilities** -
- **introduction** -
- **loss functions** -
- **optimizers** -
- **interaction** -
- **TensorFlow Developer Summit** -

---

from [[_1-3-why-tf-js]]

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[_1-3-why-tf-js]: _1-3-why-tf-js.md "🌱 Why TF.js?"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"
