# 🌱 The JS Ecosystem

## [**1.2.2.** The JavaScript ecosystem](https://livebook.manning.com/book/deep-learning-with-javascript/chapter-1/132)

---

### [**Table 1.2** A brief summary of the benefits of doing deep learning in JavaScript]()

---

## **Vocabulary**

- <span style="color: #0095ff">**Javascript Ecosystem**</span> - for years has consistently ranked **number one among programming languages by repository count** such as NPM.
- **GitHub**
  - JavaScript has been consistently ranked number one among a few dozen programming languages in terms of repository count and pull activities on GitHub.
- **Amazon Web Services**
- **MongoDB / RethinkDB**
  - Most popular database systems today, such as MongoDB and RethinkDB, have first-class support for Node.js drivers.
- **Vega.js**
  - is a visualization grammar, a declarative language for creating, saving, and sharing interactive visualization designs.
  - With Vega, you can describe the visual appearance and interactive behavior of a visualization in a JSON format, and generate web-based views using Canvas or SVG.
- **Plotly.js**
  - Built on top of d3.js and stack.gl, Plotly.js is a high-level, declarative charting library.
  - Plotly.js ships with over 40 chart types, including 3D charts, statistical graphs, and SVG maps.
- **Ionic**
  - Ionic is a powerful HTML5 SDK that helps you build native-feeling mobile apps using web technologies like HTML, CSS, and Javascript.
  - Ionic is focused mainly on the look and feel, and UI interaction of your app. That means we aren't a replacement for PhoneGap or your favorite Javascript framework.
- **locality**

---

from [[_1-2-why-js-ml]]

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[_1-2-why-js-ml]: _1-2-why-js-ml.md "🌱 1.2. Why JS with ML?"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"
