# 🌱 Why DL? Why now?

## [**1.1.4.** Why deep learning? Why now?](https://livebook.manning.com/book/deep-learning-with-javascript/chapter-1/75)

---

## **Vocabulary**

- <b>basic ideas</b>
  - Neural networks already existed as **early as the 1980s**, and 3 key technical forces in 30 years drove the **2012 AI revolution** that we are experiencing today.
- <b>benchmarks</b>
  - Catalyst for the rise of deep learning is the ImageNet dataset, which consists of 1.4 million images that have been hand annotated with 1,000 image categories.
  - Through Kaggle having **common benchmarks that researchers compete to beat** has greatly helped the recent rise of deep learning.
- <b>theory</b>
  - Deep learning is an engineering science guided by experimental findings rather than by theory.
- <b>NVIDIA and AMD</b>
  - invested billions of dollars in developing fast, massively parallel chips (GPUs) to power the graphics of increasingly photorealistic video games.
  - Deep neural networks, consisting mostly of many matrix multiplications and additions, are also highly parallelizable.
- <b>activation functions</b>
  - An activation function is a function used in artificial neural networks which outputs a small value for small inputs, and a larger value if its inputs exceed a threshold.
  - Two commonly used activation functions:
    - **rectified linear unit (ReLU)**
    - **logistic sigmoid function**
    - **softmax**
- <b>weight-initialization schemes</b>
  - The aim of weight initialization is to prevent layer activation outputs from exploding or vanishing during the course of a forward pass through a deep neural network.
- <b>optimization schemes</b>
  - Optimizers are algorithms or methods used to change the attributes of your neural network such as weights and learning rate in order to reduce the losses.
  - Optimization algorithms or strategies are responsible for reducing the losses and to provide the most accurate results possible.
- <b>RMSProp</b>
- <b>training models</b>

## **Blog**

- [Various Optimization Algorithms for Training Neural Network](https://towardsdatascience.com/optimizers-for-training-neural-network-59450d71caf6#:~:text=Optimizers%20are%20algorithms%20or%20methods,order%20to%20reduce%20the%20losses.&text=Optimization%20algorithms%20or%20strategies%20are,the%20most%20accurate%20results%20possible.)

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="all" href="../../../assets/css/custom.css" />

---

from [[_1-1-ai-nn-dl]]

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[_1-1-ai-nn-dl]: _1-1-ai-nn-dl.md "🌱 AI ML NN DL"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"
