# 🪀 Fit Model to Train Data

## [**2.1.5** Fitting the model to the training data](https://livebook.manning.com/book/deep-learning-with-javascript/chapter-2/63)

---

## **Vocabulary**

- **`evaluate()`**
  - method calculates the loss function as applied to the provided example features and targets.
  - Does not update the model’s weights.
  - We use evaluate() to estimate the quality of the model on the test data, so as to get an idea about how the model would perform in the future application.
- **`fit()`**
  - Function fitting is the process of training a neural network on a set of inputs in order to produce an associated set of target outputs.
  - After you construct the network with the desired hidden layers and the training algorithm, you must train it using a set of training data.
- **mean absolute error (MAE)**
  - The MAE measures the average magnitude of the errors in a set of forecasts, without considering their direction.
  - It measures accuracy for continuous variables.
- **chaining API**
- **tf namespace**
- **underfitting**
  - A model is said to be underfitting when it's not even able to classify the data it was trained on, let alone data it hasn't seen before.
  - A model is said to be underfitting when it's not able to classify the data it was trained on.
- **overfitting**

## **Blog**

- [Customize what happens in Model.fit](https://www.tensorflow.org/guide/keras/customizing_what_happens_in_fit)

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="all" href="../../../assets/css/custom.css" />

---

from [[_2-1-predict-duration-download-ts-js]]

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[_2-1-predict-duration-download-ts-js]: _2-1-predict-duration-download-ts-js.md "🪀 Predict TF.js Download"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"
