# 🪀 Project Overview

## [**2.1.1.** Project overview: Duration prediction](https://livebook.manning.com/book/deep-learning-with-javascript/chapter-2/9)

---

### [**Figure 2.1** Overview of the major steps involved in the download-time prediction system, our first example](https://livebook.manning.com/book/deep-learning-with-javascript/chapter-2/ch02fig01)

---

## **Vocabulary**

- **training data** - The training data is an initial set of data used to help a program understand how to apply technologies like neural networks to learn and produce sophisticated results.
  - Training data is also known as a training set, training dataset or learning set.
  - In a dataset, a training set is implemented to build up a model, while a test (or validation) set is to validate the model built.
  - Data points in the training set are excluded from the test (validation) set.
- **machine learning** - Neural networks are a class of machine learning algorithms used to model complex patterns in datasets using multiple hidden layers and non-linear activation functions.
  - Each neuron's coefficients (weights) are then adjusted relative to how much they contributed to the total error.
- **trainable function** - In recent years there has been a renovated interest of the scientific community in investigating activation functions which can be trained during the learning process, usually referred to as "trainable", "learnable" or "adaptable" activation functions.
  - They appear to lead to better network performance.
- **accuracy** - Accuracy is one metric for evaluating classification models. Informally, accuracy is the fraction of predictions our model got right. Formally, accuracy has the following definition: Accuracy = Number of correct predictions Total number of predictions.

---

from [[_2-1-predict-duration-download-ts-js]]

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[_2-1-predict-duration-download-ts-js]: _2-1-predict-duration-download-ts-js.md "🪀 Predict TF.js Download"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"
