# 🪀 Def Simple Models

## [**2.1.4** Defining a simple model](https://livebook.manning.com/book/deep-learning-with-javascript/chapter-2/34)

---

### [**Figure 2.3** An illustration of our simple linear-regression model](https://livebook.manning.com/book/deep-learning-with-javascript/chapter-2/ch02fig03)

---

## **Vocabulary**

- **simple model** - A linear regression model with one layer. For example a dense layers with tunable weights on the kernel and bias.
- **deep learning** - Deep learning (also known as deep structured learning) is part of a broader family of machine learning methods based on artificial neural networks with representation learning. Learning can be supervised, semi-supervised or unsupervised.
- **model** - is represented by its architecture that shows how to transform two or more inputs into an output.
  - The transformation is given in the form of a learning algorithm.
- **regression** - Regression ANNs predict an output variable as a function of the inputs. If the output variable is a categorical variable (or binary) the ANN will function as a classifier.
- **classification** -
- **tunable** -
- **building blocks** -
- **layer** -
- **dense layer** -
- **kernel** -
- **bias** -
- **training process** -
- **weights** -
- **loss function** -
- **learning** -
- **optimizer** -
- **stochastic gradient descent** -

---

from [[_2-1-predict-duration-download-ts-js]]

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[_2-1-predict-duration-download-ts-js]: _2-1-predict-duration-download-ts-js.md "🪀 Predict TF.js Download"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"
