# 💊 Deploy TF.js Model on on Plats Env

## [**12.3.** Deploying TensorFlow.js models on various platforms and environments](https://livebook.manning.com/book/deep-learning-with-javascript/chapter-12/161)

- You’ve optimized your model, it’s fast and lightweight, and all your tests are green. You’re good to go! Hooray! But before you pop that champagne, there’s a bit more work to do.

- It’s time to put your model into your application and get it out in front of your user base. In this section, we will cover a few deployment platforms. Deploying to the web and deploying to a Node.js service are well-known paths, but we’ll also cover a few more exotic deployment scenarios, like deploying to a browser extension or a single-board embedded hardware application. We will point to simple examples and discuss special considerations important for the platforms.

## Sub-Chapters

- **12.3.1.** Additional considerations when deploying to the web
- **12.3.2.** Deployment to cloud serving
- **12.3.3.** Deploying to a browser extension, like Chrome Extension
- **12.3.4.** Deploying TensorFlow.js models in JavaScript-based mobile applications
- **12.3.5.** Deploying TensorFlow.js models in JavaScript-based cross-platform- m desktop applications
- **12.3.6.** Deploying TensorFlow.js models on WeChat and other JavaScript-bas- sed mobile app plugin systems
- **12.3.7.** Deploying TensorFlow.js models on single-board computers
- **12.3.8.** Summary of deployments

## **Vocabulary**

- **deploying Tensorflow.js models**

---

from [[_12-testing-optim]]

---

to

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[_12-testing-optim]: ../_12-testing-optim.md "💊 12 TESTING OPTIM"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"
